The root cause and location of the
belt noise is often a difficult diagnosis.
Belt noise, most often, is not a problem
with the belt,
so just replacing the belt will only
delay finding the real problem.
Belt Chirp is generally a misalignment problem between the component pulleys
and idlers in the belt drive system. Belt
squeal, on the other hand, indicates a loss of tension -
either from a worn belt, failing
tensioner or both.
Both must be replaced to bring the
system back to a like-new condition.
Here's a simple test that will help you
determine whether belt noise
is a system misalignment or a belt
tension problem.
If it's an alignment problem, this test
can help locate the component or pulley
that is out of alignment. Before we start
though,
here's a word of caution: this test is
performed with the engine running so it's highly recommended
that a professional technician conduct
this test. All clothing,
body parts and tools must be kept clear
moving engine parts.
Failure to do so can result in severe
injury
or even death. First, fill a spray bottle
with tap water
make sure it's only water sense you'll be
spraying it on the belt.
Next, duplicate the conditions when belt noise is normally heard.
For example, if you hear belt chirp when
the engine is cold
perform this test in the morning. The
objective is to spray water on the v-rib side of the belt,
where the belt enters the pulley, in the
location where the noise seems to come from.
The right location can be difficult to
determine, but frequently
misalignment noise originates from the
shortest belt span. In other words
the belt section with the shortest
distance between two pulleys.
This is especially true if one the short
span pulleys
operates on the backside of the belt. Here
is a water pump, for example, that is
powered by the backside the v-rib belt.
Look to see if there is a short span
between this pulley and the next.
Start the engine and spray the v-rib side of the belt where
it enters the pulley. The water will
act as a lubricant.
If belt noise becomes more pronounced, that
is, if the squealing gets louder when the belt is sprayed.
It means that there is not enough tension on the belt. The belt
and the tensioner should both be replaced. If on the other hand,
the noise, or chirping, goes away
momentarily when the bill was sprayed and then it returns,
it means one or more of the pulleys at that
location are out of alignment.
If there is no change in belt noise, look
for the next shortest belt span and
spray again where the belt enters the
second pulley
in the span. If the noise goes away and
then returns
you have identify the location of the
misalignment. The belt can be removed and
alignment checked with the laser
alignment tool available from Napa Belts & Hose.
Information on how to do that is in the
video segment "Changing the Serpentine Belt"